# Algodal™ Code Style

This is the Algodal™ Code Style (also known as Coding Convention or Coding Guidelines) 
used for all Algodal™ Projects.

This document assumes that the reader is knowledgeable on Programming Language jargons such as variables,
functions, etc.  It also assumes the user understands the terms PascalCase, SnakeCase, KebabCase, UpperCase
and LowerCase or a combination of these.

This document is not for everyone.  It provides a restrictive design on how to approach the whole ARCHITECTURE
of a software project.  It MAY be implemented, at the user's discretion, in part or entirely.  For parts
that don't apply to your projects, it MAY be ignored entirely.

The aim of this code style, is to give the user a *rigid guideline on how to structure a software project*.  This
primarily includes, the naming of folders, files and source-code labels.  It was designed for use by
large-scale C Libraries and C Applications projects that are built using CMAKE but may be implemented 
for other types of project (and other build systems).

Git versioning and Github repo is expected for the projects (but users can use whatever they prefer).

## Naming of Project Folder

The project's root folder MUST be descriptive PascalKebabCase English Phrase OR
if the project has a unique name then it MAY be a pronoun PascalKebabCase.

```
Parser-Generator
Signal-Response-Corresponder
Mojan-Fire
Loader
Helmet
```

This is the same name the git repo is saved as.

For CMAKE build system, the name of the project MAY differ from the folder name to something more palettable
like an abbreviation.  Regardless, CMAKE project names are written in UpperSnakeCase.
The above examples may be re-written as for CMAKE:

```
project(PARGEN)
project(SRC)
project(LOADER)
project(HELMET)
```

If you choose to abbreviate the name, how you abbreviate it is your choice.  For instance, the first 2 could
have been written as:

```
project(PAR_GEN)
project(SIGNAL_RESPONSE_CORR)
```

## CMAKE Build Setup

DO NOT add CMAKE scripts to **CMAKE_MODULE_PATH** because it causes issues when importing CMAKE projects
into another CMAKE project.  Usually if that is the case, you will have to ensure that each CMAKE project's
script files have unique names but that is hard to guarantee.  Instead, include scripts by providing 
the full path using the generated variables, such as:

```
include(${PARGEN_SOURCE_DIR}/Scripts/Cmake/GetSourceFiles.cmake)
```

There is NO rule on how to name CMAKE script files or functions/macros.
The only rule is that all CMAKE variables MUST be UpperSnakeCase and its
name starting with the CMAKE's project name, such as:

```
PARGEN_SOURCE_FILES #User created
PARGEN_BUILD_FLAG   #User created
```

It is RECOMMENDED to use an abbreviation that doesn't have any separation (meaning underscores or dashes)
as it is more aesthetic when accessing CMAKE generated variables.  CMAKE generate variables based on your
project name you provided it, such as:

```
PARGEN_SOURCE_DIR
PARGEN_BINARY_DIR
```

CMAKE projects ALWAYS add **Source/** as it's include directory.

```
include_directories(Source)
```

## Project Folder Contents

ALL projects MUST contain:

* README.md
* VERSION.md
* LICENSE

C projects MUST contain:

* Source/

CMAKE projects MUST contain:

* CMakeLists.txt
* Build/

Projects MAY contain:

* Scripts/
* Data/
* Documents/

The files **README.md**, **VERSION.md** and **VERSION** store important information about your project
and are used for github repo. **Source/** is where all the source code for your project goes (some third-party
source code are stored in the build folder automatically by CMAKE). **CMakeLists.txt** is CMAKE config file
and **Build/** is where everything CMAKE generates goes.  User can store other (not related to CMAKE) 
binary files here as well.  Basically, **Build/** is considered the binary folder of the project (though
scripts may store their outputs else where).  It is RECOMMENDED for CMAKE, to create subfolders in **Build/**
for Debug and Release configurations. **Scripts/** is where scripts are stored.  The scripts can be from any
framework.  CMAKE and Python scripts are expected the most.  The user MAY put scripts in the root directory
for use-case purposes.  **Data/** is where all data (which is any file that is used directly or indirectly 
by the project's library or application goes). **Documents/** contains informational files generated by the project,
files containing additional information about the project and project files for asset generating softwares (**Data/**
would contain the exported files).

With the exception of **Source/**, there is no rules on the naming convention of the above files or files contained by
the above folders nor their content.

## Source Folder

**Source/** MUST have sub-directories grouping the source code according to the purpose.  
There is NO rule governing how the names of these folders are to be written.  It is RECOMMENDED though,
that PascalCase is used for ALL sub-directories.  For the core code of the project, 
the name of the folder is RECOMMENDED be the same name used as the CMAKE project's name but can be of
any choosing. For IMPORTED source code, you can leave the folder names as is or rename if you prefer.

The is no rule against having source files in the root source folder.

Each sub-directory MAY have their own sub-directories based on how best to group the code.

## Core Source Code

The names of the source files CREATED for a project MUST be in LowerKebabCase. If you are
using a language in which this is not possible, such as python, you MAY use LowerSnakeCase.
The name represents a grouping of the code it contains.
For source files that are IMPORTED in the project and is not following
this pattern, you may leave as is or rename if you prefer (remember to update includes).

For example,  for a file structure:

```
Source/
	Math/
		geo-calc.h
		trig.h
		Shape/
			triangle.h
	Visual/
		visual.h
	Algorithim/ #imported external source
		FastMultiply.h
		SIMD_divide.h
```

Within each subdirectory, when including a file, it would be:

```
#include "geo-calc.h"
#include "trig.h"
```

When including a file from a different subdirectory, it would be:

```
#include "Shape/triangle.h"
#include "Visual/visual.h"
#include "Algorithm/FastMultiply.h"
#include "Algorithm/SIMD_divide.h"
```

## Source Variables

Variables are written as CamelCase.  The first name is ALWAYS the SUBJECT. It is followed by an
ADJECTIVE phrase.  It may have a descriptive LABEL at the end.

```
ball
ballGreen
ballBigGreen
ballBigGreenQuad
```

## Source Functions

Functions are written as PascalCase.  The first name is ALWAYS the VERB. It is followed by an
PREDICATE phrase.  It may have a descriptive LABEL at the end.
The PREDICATE phrase is the OPTIONAL subject written as variable in the same Case.
Then followed by OPTIONAL ADVERB followed by the PREPOSITION phrase.  This part is repeated as needed.
When naming functions, use the least descriptive name with the enough information the function
needs to provide.

```
Get
GetBall
GetBallGreen
GetBallBigGreen
GetBallBigGreenQuad
GetQuickly
GetBallQuickly
GetWithSize
GetBallWithSize
GetQuicklyWithSize
GetBallQuicklyWithSize
```

## Source Types including Structs and Typedefs

Types are written as PascalCase. It MUST be a NOUN.  Types are blueprints of the objects that are being created.

```
Sprite
Enemy
Thread
Int
Float
Boy
Girl
```

## Source Constants including Defines and Enums

Contants are written as UpperSnakeCase.  It follows the pattern for the type of label 
it represents (functions, variables, types, etc).

```
SIZE
BALL
GET_BALL
SPRITE
```

## Source Namespace

For each of the above, NAMESPACE can be added to avoid name-clashing.  Namespaces are prepended in the SAME case
and separated by underscore.  The NAMESPACE is a user-specific name.  It is RECOMMENDED to use the sub-directories
names but it can be anything.  A single NAMESPACE can have multiple names which my be joined together or
separated by underscores.

```
math_ball
Math_Get
Math_Sprite
MATH_SIZE
```

## Special Name

You are required to follow the above inorder to be consistent.  However, you need to break any rules and you need
some form of special pattern.  You MAY use LowerSnakeCase.  
Use it for any type of labels (functions, variables, constants, types, etc).

```
i_am_a_special_label
```






